[doc] Add documentation for Keycloak (#27678)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/integrations/keycloak.md

---
title: Keycloak
linkTitle: Keycloak
description: Use Keycloak with YSQL API
aliases:
menu:
  preview_integrations:
    identifier: keycloak
    parent: integrations-security
    weight: 571
type: docs
---

> [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) is an open source identity and access management tool that adds authentication to applications and secure services with minimum effort.

Reviewer: Why am I using keycloak with YBDB though? What is the benefit/point

Author: Keycloak is an authentication tool that you can use with your applications. It stores the username and password in a database, we are adding this document to configure that database to be YugabyteDB

## Prerequisites

Before you start using the Keycloak, ensure that you have:

- OpenJDK 21.
- The latest version of [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/downloads).
- A YugabyteDB cluster. Refer to [YugabyteDB Quick start guide](/preview/tutorials/quick-start/macos/) to install and start a local cluster.

## Configure and start Keycloak

To configure Keycloak, do the following:

> - Create database `keycloak` on your cluser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In YugabyteDB, create a database called `keycloak` on your cluster.
```

 public | resource_server_scope         | table | yugabyte
 public | resource_uris                 | table | yugabyte
 public | revoked_token                 | table | yugabyte
 public | role_attribute                | table | yugabyte
 public | scope_mapping                 | table | yugabyte
 public | scope_policy                  | table | yugabyte
 public | server_config                 | table | yugabyte
 public | user_attribute                | table | yugabyte
 public | user_consent                  | table | yugabyte
 public | user_consent_client_scope     | table | yugabyte
 public | user_entity                   | table | yugabyte
 public | user_federation_config        | table | yugabyte
 public | user_federation_mapper        | table | yugabyte
 public | user_federation_mapper_config | table | yugabyte
 public | user_federation_provider      | table | yugabyte
 public | user_group_membership         | table | yugabyte
 public | user_required_action          | table | yugabyte
 public | user_role_mapping             | table | yugabyte
 public | web_origins                   | table | yugabyte
```

## Test Keycloak

> Go to `localhost:8080` and you will see the dashboard to create a user. Enter your desired username and the password and click on `Create user`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to `localhost:8080` and you will see the dashboard to create a user. Provide a username and password and click **Create user**. 
```

![Keycloak Create User](/images/develop/ecosystem-integrations/keycloak/keycloak-create-user.png)

> Once the user is created, you will see the following screen. Click on the `Open Administration Console` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak creates the user and displays the following screen.
```

![Keycloak Open Admin Console](/images/develop/ecosystem-integrations/keycloak/keycloak-open-admin-console.png)

> You can also verify the user creation on your database as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also verify the user creation on your database as follows:
```

```sql
yugabyte=# \c keycloak 
You are now connected to database "keycloak" as user "yugabyte".
keycloak=# select id,username from user_entity ;
                  id                  |   username    
--------------------------------------+---------------
 5fa4b561-66e1-49ab-9a85-bbb4d6088f15 | keycloak_user
(1 row)
```

> On the sign in page, enter the username and password you just created and click on `Sign in`.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Open Administration Console**. On the sign in page that displays, enter the username and password you just created and click **Sign in**.
```

![Keycloak Sign In](/images/develop/ecosystem-integrations/keycloak/keycloak-sign-in.png)

> You are now logged in to the Keycloak dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are now signed in to the Keycloak dashboard:
```

[Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) is an open source identity and access management tool that adds authentication to applications and secure services with minimum effort.

Using YugabyteDB as the database for Keycloak provides high availability, horizontal scalability, and global data distribution—making it ideal for large-scale, mission-critical identity systems. Its PostgreSQL compatibility ensures seamless integration, while its distributed architecture enables low-latency authentication across regions and resilience to failures. YugabyteDB supports strong consistency, cloud-native deployment, and elastic scaling, which makes it well-suited for modern Keycloak deployments running in Kubernetes or multi-region environments.

## Prerequisites

> Before you start using the Keycloak, ensure that you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start using Keycloak, ensure that you have:
```
